---
id: ec17915f-a2fb-4b8b-ae66-e56f9e46ca45
published: false
blueprint: text
title: 'How to get started in programming?'
caption: "Over the years I've had a few friends ask me how I got started in programming and how they can get started themselves."
tags:
  - web-dev
updated_by: 4e0556b2-7dee-443c-949b-fa0977eaa142
updated_at: 1710814835
---
My roommate was the last person to ask me this question, and it's such a daunting question to answer.

First, figure out what part of programming interests you. Do you want to build complex software to send rockets to the moon? Do you want to build a mobile application to track your pet's schedule? Or do you want to build an application for your local coffee roaster to track their batches?

I started to build websites for folks, which grew into wanting to solve problems for them. 

Here's an _incredibly_ simple breakdown of how building the web works

HTML: building blocks
CSS: changes the shape and color of the building blocks
JS: moves the building blocks around 
Backend language: stores and processes data

## Why PHP?

I started learning PHP for an internship in 2014 using CodeIgniter, and then a professor suggested Laravel since it was the new hotness at the time. PHP has given me a stable and fun career. Many websites use it so that it will be a good bet for the foreseeable future.

## Would you go back and pick a different language?

No, I think PHP is great, and the Laravel ecosystem makes building things delightful. 

## What about layoffs?

Unfortunately, layoffs are a part of the current tech environment. I believe many layoffs are fueled by corporate greed, but that's a subject for a different post.

## TLDR: 
Dip your toes in HTML/CSS/JS and see if it is of interest to you